Add blog post on GitHub Copilot Workspace (#289)
epiverse-trace/epiverse-trace.github.io: posts/copilot-workspace/index.qmd

---
title: "Some thoughts after a trial run of GitHub’s Copilot Workspace"
author:
  - name: "Joshua W. Lambert"
    orcid: "0000-0001-5218-3046"
  - name: "James Mba Azam"
    orcid: "0000-0001-5782-7330"
  - name: "Pratik Gupte"
    orcid: "0000-0001-5294-7819"
  - name: "Adam Kucharski"
    orcid: "0000-0001-8814-9421"
date: "2024-06-24"

> categories: [AI, GitHub, Copilot Workspace, R, R package, software development]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
categories: [AI, GitHub, Copilot Workspace, R, R package, software development, DOI]
```

In case you'd like a DOI for this (or any future) post - add the DOI category. This is super new and haven't shared the procedure yet, but figured it would be relevant to mention here.

bibliography: index.bib
format:
  html: 
    toc: true
---

> GitHub recently previewed ‘Copilot Workspace’, which aims to use generative AI to assist software developers. Rather than just giving in-line suggestions, as GitHub copilot does, workspace allows users to map out and execute entire projects. We got early preview access to the tool, so decided to see how well it performed for our needs in Epiverse.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitHub recently previewed ‘Copilot Workspace’, which aims to use generative AI to assist software developers. Rather than just giving in-line suggestions, as GitHub copilot does, workspace allows users to map out and execute entire projects. We got early preview access to the tool, so decided to see how well it performed for our needs in Epiverse-TRACE.
```

> GitHub recently previewed ‘Copilot Workspace’, which aims to use generative AI to assist software developers. Rather than just giving in-line suggestions, as GitHub copilot does, workspace allows users to map out and execute entire projects. We got early preview access to the tool, so decided to see how well it performed for our needs in Epiverse.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GitHub recently previewed [‘Copilot Workspace’](https://github.blog/2024-04-29-github-copilot-workspace/), which aims to use generative AI to assist software developers. Rather than just giving in-line suggestions, as GitHub copilot does, workspace allows users to map out and execute entire projects. We got early preview access to the tool, so decided to see how well it performed for our needs in Epiverse.
```

Author: Couldn't commit as it was the same line as another commit suggestion. Change made in 259b5de53e460cb09ff1d50999b31907d171e5bd.

> In the Epiverse-TRACE initiative we aim to develop an ecosystem of epidemic analytics tools as [Digital Public Goods](https://digitalpublicgoods.net/) in the form of R packages. We aim to [follow best-practices](https://epiverse-trace.github.io/blueprints/) given that our tools will be used to inform  public health decisions. For efficiency, we use a range of development tools, including integrated development environments (IDE), such as RStudio and Visual Studio Code, other R packages to help check and document our code, for example {lintr} and {roxygen2}, and version control and code sharing tools, git and GitHub.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the Epiverse-TRACE initiative we aim to develop an ecosystem of epidemic analytics tools as [Digital Public Goods](https://digitalpublicgoods.net/) in the form of R packages. We aim to [follow best-practices](https://epiverse-trace.github.io/blueprints/) given that our tools will be used to inform public health decisions. For efficiency, we use a range of development tools, including integrated development environments (IDE), such as RStudio and Visual Studio Code, other R packages to help check and document our code, for example {lintr} and {roxygen2}, and version control and code sharing tools, git and GitHub.
```

> Given the rapid development and increasing availability to artificial intelligence (AI) models, specifically large language models, offer the potential to be another development tool to add to the arsenal of researchers and software engineers to enhance productivity and improve the reliability of the code we write and others depend upon [@vanHoek2024]. Large language models like ChatGPT from OpenAI, Gemini from Google, Claude from Anthropic, as well as many others and new ones frequently appearing, have presented opportunities to quickly generate material -- text, code and images -- from text prompts.

Reviewer 2: The first sentence is missing something to make it a sentence but I can't figure it out.

> We decided to explore the suitability of one such, GitHub Copilot integrated with GitHub Workspaces, for some typical use cases encountered by our research software engineering team. We do note that many other such tools are available, and we chose Copilot in Workspaces as our code is hosted on GitHub, making for easy evaluation of the specific contribution of the AI tool. However, some of our broad conclusions are based on using other tools for similar tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A small group of Epiverse-TRACE professors and research software engineers decided to explore the suitability of one such, GitHub Copilot integrated with GitHub Workspaces, for some typical use cases encountered in our day-to-day work. We do note that many other such tools are available, and we chose Copilot in Workspaces as our code is hosted on GitHub, making for easy evaluation of the specific contribution of the AI tool. However, some of our broad conclusions are based on using other tools for similar tasks.
```

> To test this out, a small group of Epiverse-TRACE professors and research software engineers explored its functionality. The aim of this blog post is to summarise our experience with Copilot and Workspaces, and share our thoughts more generally about how the current feature set of AI-powered development tools could help with our daily development tasks, and with research software development at large. We evaluated Copilot workspace across three tasks of varying difficulty and requirements:

Reviewer 2: I think "professors" here suggests Epiverse-TRACE has dedicated professors?
```suggestion
To test this out, a small group of Epiverse-TRACE leads and research software engineers explored its functionality. The aim of this blog post is to summarise our experience with Copilot and Workspaces, and share our thoughts more generally about how the current feature set of AI-powered development tools could help with our daily development tasks, and with research software development at large. We evaluated Copilot workspace across three tasks of varying difficulty and requirements:
```

> * Experiment 1: Exporting an R function by updating the documentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Experiment 1: Exposing an R function to users by updating the documentation.
```

Author: I prefer the previous wording.

> * Experiment 2: Adding a basic Susceptible-Infected-Recovered (SIR) model to an existing R package that contains other epidemiological models

Reviewer 2: Given the audience could be anyone, we may want to reduce distractions with niche words.

```suggestion
* Experiment 2: Adding a basic epidemic model to an existing R package that contains other epidemiological models
```

* Experiment 3: Conducting a code review on an R package

> ## Experiment 1: Export an R function by updating the documentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Experiment 1: Exposing an R function to users by updating the documentation
```

::: {.callout-note}

> Difficulty level: basic

Author: I think the difficulty level is independent on the R developer's experience.

:::

> The first experiment was on an R package {EpiNow2}, which provides functions for forecasting and nowcasting epidemics and pandemics. [Issue #681](https://github.com/epiforecasts/EpiNow2/issues/681) was chosen as a simple task to evaluate Copilot workspace's ability to interpret requests that require small changes to the codebase of a package (i.e. can be achieved in a single commit by changing less than 5 lines of code). The issue stated that an internal function, `epinow2_cmdstan_model()` should be exported, with the issue description explaining this would help users specify compile-time options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first experiment was on an R package {EpiNow2}, which provides functions for forecasting and nowcasting epidemics and pandemics. An existing [Issue #681](https://github.com/epiforecasts/EpiNow2/issues/681) was chosen. It was a simple task to evaluate Copilot workspace's ability to interpret requests that require small changes to the codebase of a package (i.e. can be achieved in a single commit by changing less than 5 lines of code). The issue stated that an internal function, `epinow2_cmdstan_model()` should be exported, with the issue description explaining this would help users specify compile-time options.
```

The changes made will still require the user to manually run the documentation (using either `devtools::document()` or `roxygen2::roxygenize()`) to update the package `NAMESPACE` for the function to be exported. Our recommendation would be for AI tools to integrate with and call development tools used by developers (analogous to pre-commit hooks running tools before committing) to make sure this is taken care of all in a single generative step.

## Experiment 2: Add a simple epidemic model to an R package that contains more complex models

::: {.callout-note}
Difficulty level: moderate to high
:::

> {epidemics} is an Epiverse-TRACE R package that exports a range of compartmental  epidemiological models of varying complexities and applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{epidemics} is an Epiverse-TRACE R package that exports a range of compartmental epidemiological models of varying complexities and applications.
```

In the second test case, we created an issue in the {epidemics} R package requesting a basic SIR model, with the issue description requesting the model to have no age structure and to use existing functionality in the package to specify a disease intervention. Additionally, the issue requested that the model be solved with the {deSolve} R package, which is a differential equation solver in R. A basic SIR model would have been new to the package, but one of several other compartmental models, and simpler than the models already implemented.

![Screenshot of epidemics package issue 238 which was used as an example application of GitHub Copilot Workspace.](epidemics_issue.png)

### Outcome

> GitHub copilot workspace outlined the existing functionality in the package and proposed changes including added a new file called `R/model_sir.R`, which follows the `model_*.R` naming convention used in {epidemics}. As requested, copilot also proposed that the new SIR model would support the use of interventions that have already been implemented in the package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitHub copilot workspace outlined the existing functionality in the package and proposed changes including adding a new file called `R/model_sir.R`, which follows the `model_*.R` naming convention used in {epidemics}. As requested, copilot also proposed that the new SIR model would support the use of interventions that are already been implemented in the package.
```

### Our thoughts

> The code generated was an R function that constructed a basic SIR model, and this was well documented using a {roxygen2} documentation block. However, several aspects of the code generated did not match the proposal generated by copilot workspace, and the code contained inadvisable coding practices in R (i.e. code smells). Firstly the SIR model itself. The model implemented follows the standard set of differential equations that are solved using {deSolve}, as requested in our prompt. However, the model does not have any options to input interventions, which the proposed solution by GitHub copilot workspace suggested it would. The second downside is the use of `require(deSolve)` in the function body of the generated code. This is bad practice in R as functions should namespace any functions that are being called from other packages (e.g. `packagename::func_name()`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code generated was an R function that constructed a basic SIR model, and this was well documented using a {roxygen2} documentation block. However, several aspects of the code generated did not match the proposal generated by copilot workspace, and the code contained inadvisable coding practices in R (i.e. code smells). Firstly the SIR model itself. The model implemented follows the standard set of differential equations that are solved using {deSolve}, as requested in our prompt. However, the model does not have any options to input interventions, which the proposed solution by GitHub copilot workspace suggested it would. The second downside is the use of `require(deSolve)` in the function body of the generated code. This is bad practice in R package development as functions should namespace any functions that are being called from other packages (e.g. `packagename::func_name()`).
```

This task required copilot workspace to understand the contents and conventions of the {epidemics} R package and generate a simple compartmental model which would integrate with the infrastructure in the package for defining interventions in models . Although it correctly summarised the package contents, its attempt to answer the specific request from our prompt had many inaccuracies. The generated code is likely influenced by the many examples of SIR models written in R on the internet and on GitHub. These might be R scripts or gists and thus coding practises used there are not always appropriate for writing code to be distributed in an R package, resulting in decisions like having `require(deSolve)` in the function.

> AI generated code like that seen in this example showcases where users need to be diligent and not assume that the text descriptions from copilot match the code. In the end, this was a test example and was unlikely to be merged into {epidemics} even if the code was correctly, but with the code generated it presents almost no use and for an RSE would require as much time to refactor this SIR model function as it would to write one from scratch following the design principles and demands of the {epidemics} package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AI generated code like that seen in this example showcases where users need to be diligent and not assume that the text descriptions from copilot match the code. In the end, this was a test example and was unlikely to be merged into {epidemics} even if the code was correct but with the code generated it presents almost no use and for an RSE would require as much time to refactor this SIR model function as it would to write one from scratch following the design principles and demands of the {epidemics} package.
```

## Experiment 3: Conducting a code review on an R package

::: {.callout-note}
Difficulty level: moderate to high
:::

In the last test case, we requested GitHub copilot workspace to conduct a [code review of the entire code base of a package](https://github.com/epiverse-trace/simulist/pull/117). At Epiverse-TRACE, it is standard practise to conduct a full package review. As any code base develops, including R packages, more commits are added and often the number of lines of code increases. Reviewing all of these changes before releasing a new version of the package is a timely undertaking for package reviewers. If AI tools could review the code base, similar to how static code analysers work, and suggest improvements to, for example, code style, memory efficiency, documentation, unit testing, UX/UI, it would greatly improve efficiency before releasing the code.

### Outcome

> Here, Copilot provided no analysis of the code base. It regurgitated the changes described in the [package review pull request](https://epiverse-trace.github.io/blueprints/code-review.html#full-package-review), likely from a mix of the pull request description and the `NEWS.md` file, and did not analyse any of the code. Therefore, it provided no additional use than if the reviewer had just read the `NEWS`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, Copilot provided no analysis of the code base. It regurgitated the changes described in the [package review pull request](https://epiverse-trace.github.io/blueprints/code-review.html#full-package-review), likely from a mix of the pull request description and the changelog (`NEWS.md` file), and did not analyse any of the code. Therefore, it provided no additional use than if the reviewer had just read the `NEWS`.
```

## Conclusion

> The evidence above suggests there’s still a long way to go before AI-powered tools produce code projects unsupervised that are equivalent to that from a research software engineer. One issue is the generative AI has training database that leans towards common problems, which can makes its solutions to coding problems with specific constraints suboptimal, particularly in fields where there is a relatively small public code base to train models with (e.g. R functions for epidemic analysis are much rarer than generic JavaScript functions for web design). A second is that AI-models are picking up common patterns and synthesising them, and didn’t seem to be able to understand how different parts of a codebase link together, which a developer would be able to use to reduce duplication and keep a consistent design pattern. Put together, we think the applicability of current generative AI models to aid research software engineering in domain-specific R package development, where problems can be complex bespoke solutions are common, is likely to be low. This could improve for use-cases which seek to implement more common tasks, such as building dashboard templates.

Reviewer 2: I think this paragraph requires further improving to clearly communicate the conclusions. I tried to reword it in the way that I understood it, hoping it did not change the original meaning.

- "The evidence above suggests there’s still a long way to go before AI-powered tools can produce unsupervised code projects equivalent to that of a research software engineer." - I don't think this should be the leading statement because it suggests that's what we set out to prove. I've moved another statement up here.

```suggestion
Based on our trials we observe that GitHub copilot Workspace may not provide a significant benefit to research software engineers in domain-specific R package development, where problems are complex and bespoke solutions are common.  The evidence above suggests there’s still a long way to go before AI-powered tools can produce unsupervised code projects equivalent to that of a research software engineer. One observation is that generative AI is better trained for some purposes than others, biased by the amount of training data/information available. This makes it struggle in niche areas with a relatively smaller public code base to train models with (e.g. R functions for epidemic analysis are much rarer than generic JavaScript functions for web design). A second is that AI models don’t seem to understand how different parts of a codebase link together, so they provide solutions that are inconsistent with the requirements of the codebase (design principles, code style, etc). These models may, however, be more useful for more common tasks, such as building dashboard templates.
```

---
title: "Some thoughts after a trial run of GitHub’s Copilot Workspace"
author:
  - name: "Joshua W. Lambert"
    orcid: "0000-0001-5218-3046"
  - name: "James Mba Azam"
    orcid: "0000-0001-5782-7330"
  - name: "Pratik Gupte"
    orcid: "0000-0001-5294-7819"
  - name: "Adam Kucharski"
    orcid: "0000-0001-8814-9421"

> date: "2024-06-24"

Author: A reason for publishing sooner rather than later is that the developments around AI and GitHub workspace are moving quite fast and may render some of the post redundant or out-of-date. I think publishing any time within the next couple of weeks will be fine but I wouldn't leave it much later than that. 

Do you have a idea of when Hugo's posts will be published and a suitable buffer between each post?

> date: "2024-06-24"

Reviewer: #290 will be merged tomorrow morning. The other blog post, I do not know exactly when this would be around and whether Hugo decided on where to publish, so I would leave it up to you and @Bisaloo to discuss if necessary.

Regardless, we could certainly schedule it for July 15th.

> date: "2024-06-24"

Author: Sure 15th July is fine.

We decided to explore the suitability of one such, GitHub Copilot integrated with GitHub Workspaces, for some typical use cases encountered by our research software engineering team. We do note that many other such tools are available, and we chose Copilot in Workspaces as our code is hosted on GitHub, making for easy evaluation of the specific contribution of the AI tool. However, some of our broad conclusions are based on using other tools for similar tasks.

To test this out, a small group of Epiverse-TRACE professors and research software engineers explored its functionality. The aim of this blog post is to summarise our experience with Copilot and Workspaces, and share our thoughts more generally about how the current feature set of AI-powered development tools could help with our daily development tasks, and with research software development at large. We evaluated Copilot workspace across three tasks of varying difficulty and requirements:

> * Experiment 1: Export an R function by updating the documentation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Experiment 1: Exporting an R function by updating the documentation
```
For consistency with below

* Experiment 2: Adding a basic Susceptible-Infected-Recovered (SIR) model to an existing R package that contains other epidemiological models

* Experiment 3: Conducting a code review on an R package

## Experiment 1: Export an R function by updating the documentation

_Difficulty level: basic_

> The first experiment was on an R package {EpiNow2} used for forecasting and nowcasting epidemics and pandemics. [Issue #681](https://github.com/epiforecasts/EpiNow2/issues/681) was chosen as a simple task to evaluate Copilot workspace's ability to interpret requests that require small changes to the codebase of a package (i.e. can be achieved in a single commit by changing less than 5 lines of code). The issue stated that an internal function, `epinow2_cmdstan_model()` should be exported, with the issue description explaining this would help users specify compile-time options.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The first experiment was on an R package {EpiNow2}, which provides functions for forecasting and nowcasting epidemics and pandemics. [Issue #681](https://github.com/epiforecasts/EpiNow2/issues/681) was chosen as a simple task to evaluate Copilot workspace's ability to interpret requests that require small changes to the codebase of a package (i.e. can be achieved in a single commit by changing less than 5 lines of code). The issue stated that an internal function, `epinow2_cmdstan_model()` should be exported, with the issue description explaining this would help users specify compile-time options.
```

In the second test case, we created an issue in the {epidemics} R package requesting a basic SIR model, with the issue description requesting the model to have no age structure and to use existing functionality in the package to specify a disease intervention. Additionally, the issue requested that the model be solved with the {deSolve} R package, which is a differential equation solver in R. A basic SIR model would have been new to the package, but one of several other compartmental models, and simpler than the models already implemented.

![Screenshot of epidemics package issue 238 which was used as an example application of GitHub Copilot Workspace.](epidemics_issue.png)

### Outcome

GitHub copilot workspace outlined the existing functionality in the package and proposed changes including added a new file called `R/model_sir.R`, which follows the `model_*.R` naming convention used in {epidemics}. As requested, copilot also proposed that the new SIR model would support the use of interventions that have already been implemented in the package.

### Our thoughts

> The code generated was an R function that constructed a basic SIR model, and this was well documented using a {roxygen2} documentation block. However, several aspects of the code generated did not match the proposal generated by copilot workspace, and the code contained inadvisable coding practicespractises in R (i.e. code smells). Firstly the SIR model itself. The model implemented follows the standard set of differential equations that are solved using {deSolve}, as requested in our prompt. However, the model does not have any options to input interventions, which the proposed solution by GitHub copilot workspace suggested it would. The second downside is the use of `require(deSolve)` in the function body of the generated code. This is bad practise in R as functions should namespace any functions that are being called from other packages (e.g. `packagename::func_name()`).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The code generated was an R function that constructed a basic SIR model, and this was well documented using a {roxygen2} documentation block. However, several aspects of the code generated did not match the proposal generated by copilot workspace, and the code contained inadvisable coding practicespractises in R (i.e. code smells). Firstly the SIR model itself. The model implemented follows the standard set of differential equations that are solved using {deSolve}, as requested in our prompt. However, the model does not have any options to input interventions, which the proposed solution by GitHub copilot workspace suggested it would. The second downside is the use of `require(deSolve)` in the function body of the generated code. This is bad practice in R as functions should namespace any functions that are being called from other packages (e.g. `packagename::func_name()`).
```

> The code generated was an R function that constructed a basic SIR model, and this was well documented using a {roxygen2} documentation block. However, several aspects of the code generated did not match the proposal generated by copilot workspace, and the code contained inadvisable coding practicespractises in R (i.e. code smells). Firstly the SIR model itself. The model implemented follows the standard set of differential equations that are solved using {deSolve}, as requested in our prompt. However, the model does not have any options to input interventions, which the proposed solution by GitHub copilot workspace suggested it would. The second downside is the use of `require(deSolve)` in the function body of the generated code. This is bad practise in R as functions should namespace any functions that are being called from other packages (e.g. `packagename::func_name()`).

Author: Resolved in [ca1f72a](https://github.com/epiverse-trace/epiverse-trace.github.io/pull/289/commits/ca1f72a483b7377bc3c09b96298741dc1b057bce).

In the last test case, we requested GitHub copilot workspace to conduct a [code review of the entire code base of a package](https://github.com/epiverse-trace/simulist/pull/117). At Epiverse-TRACE, it is standard practise to conduct a full package review. As any code base develops, including R packages, more commits are added and often the number of lines of code increases. Reviewing all of these changes before releasing a new version of the package is a timely undertaking for package reviewers. If AI tools could review the code base, similar to how static code analysers work, and suggest improvements to, for example, code style, memory efficiency, documentation, unit testing, UX/UI, it would greatly improve efficiency before releasing the code.

### Outcome

Here, Copilot provided no analysis of the code base. It regurgitated the changes described in the [package review pull request](https://epiverse-trace.github.io/blueprints/code-review.html#full-package-review), likely from a mix of the pull request description and the `NEWS.md` file, and did not analyse any of the code. Therefore, it provided no additional use than if the reviewer had just read the `NEWS`.

## Conclusion

> We think there’s still a long way to go before AI-powered tools produce code projects unsupervised that are equivalent to that from a research software engineer. One issue is the generative AI has training database that leans towards common problems, which can makes its solutions to coding problems with specific constraints suboptimal, particularly in fields where there is a relatively small public code base to train models with (e.g. R functions for epidemic analysis are much rarer than generic JavaScript functions for web design). A second is that AI-models are picking up common patterns and synthesising them, and didn’t seem to be able to understand how different parts of a codebase link together, which a developer would be able to utilise to reduce duplication and keep a consistent design pattern. Put together, we think the applicability of current generative AI models to aid research software engineering in domain-specific R package development, where bespoke solutions are common, is likely to be low. This could improve for use-cases which seek to implement more common tasks, such as building dashboards. The test cases we experimented with demonstrate that this tool will not replace, and at times not even enhance development when the task requires a more integrated development than generating a standalone script. These tools are evolving rapidly and we are sure improvements will continue. In the short term tools like GitHub copilot workspace need to be used responsibly with an awareness of their limitations and not a blind trust that the code it writes is always correct. We would caution against relying on generative AI tools alone to develop software with potentially large-scale impacts - scrutiny by trained developers is still key. Research software engineers will play a key part in this as they will ensure that code and software written with and by AI tools meet the right standards, are trustworthy, and are not potentially harmful. Where we see generative AI tools being useful in research software development is in [tasks that require sifting through or summarising vast amounts of information](https://billyquilty.substack.com/p/llmlinelist-enabling-rapid-outbreak); for example, in querying software documentation, or to help get started with a new programming framework or language.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The evidence above suggests there’s still a long way to go before AI-powered tools produce code projects unsupervised that are equivalent to that from a research software engineer. One issue is the generative AI has training database that leans towards common problems, which can makes its solutions to coding problems with specific constraints suboptimal, particularly in fields where there is a relatively small public code base to train models with (e.g. R functions for epidemic analysis are much rarer than generic JavaScript functions for web design). A second is that AI-models are picking up common patterns and synthesising them, and didn’t seem to be able to understand how different parts of a codebase link together, which a developer would be able to use to reduce duplication and keep a consistent design pattern. Put together, we think the applicability of current generative AI models to aid research software engineering in domain-specific R package development, where problems can be complex bespoke solutions are common, is likely to be low. This could improve for use-cases which seek to implement more common tasks, such as building dashboard templates. 

The test cases we experimented with suggest that this tool will not replace, and at times not even enhance development when the task requires a more integrated development than generating a standalone script. These tools are evolving rapidly and we are sure improvements will continue. In the short term tools like GitHub copilot workspace need to be used responsibly with an awareness of their limitations and not a blind trust that the code it writes is always correct. We would caution against relying on generative AI tools alone to develop software with potentially large-scale impacts - scrutiny by trained developers is still key. Research software engineers will play a key part in this as they will ensure that code and software written with and by AI tools meet required standards, are trustworthy, and are not potentially harmful. Where we see generative AI tools being more immediately useful in research software development is in [tasks that require sifting through or summarising vast amounts of information](https://billyquilty.substack.com/p/llmlinelist-enabling-rapid-outbreak); for example, in querying software documentation, or to help get started with a new programming framework or language.
```
As 'demonstrate' is quite strong and 'use' generally preferable to 'utilise'. Also a few tweaks for readability.
